Now that we know how data are collected on a site,
it's helpful to take a look at what Google Analytics does with
that data before it appears in the Google Analytics reports.
Having that background will help you work with the Google Analytics data.
Here are four main components of the analytic system.
The data collection, data processing,
data configuration, and reporting.
As we discussed, a piece of JavaScript code will
send the data from a website to Google Analytics.
In order to make Google Analytics work properly,
you need code on every page of your website.
Talk to your web developer to help you out with that.
Or refer to the link below with the information on how to add the code yourself.
Once the code is on your pages,
data on every interaction of the user with that page will be sent to
the Google servers and you will hear people refer to that data as hits.
Google then processes the data it receives.
It basically dissects the hit information it gets into pieces and stores
the data in a structured fashion so that it can put
the data back together in a useful way later on.
In this step, Google Analytics applies configurations or settings from the account owner.
For instance, when you or your developer sets up your account in Google Analytics,
you may apply filters.
An example of a filter would be one that filters out all the data that come from
your internal traffic or from people who access your site from inside your company.
Once this filter is applied,
the data you filtered out can no longer be accessed.
You will never see that data in your Google Analytics account.
So, these settings or configurations that get applied here are permanent.
But Google Analytics allows you to create different views with different filters applied.
Then when you go to your Google Analytics account,
you will see different views based on the filters you or your developer applied.
In the example, for the Google merchandise store,
you see three different views.
Looking at the user data in these different views,
it looks like there's actually no filters applied.
But it's good to have different view setup in case
you decide later that filters are necessary.
This account setup is fairly straightforward.
You have a master view, basically,
the view you will access the most,
that is where you would have applied the filters that are important to you.
Then there is a test view.
This view could be used to look at a part of your site,
for instance, when you're testing a new design.
Then there is the raw data view.
It's a good idea to always keep a raw data view.
Once you apply a filter to any data,
that data you filter out is lost permanently.
So, having this raw data view allows you to always come back
to the data in case you accidentally filtered out something you still want to see.
After processing and configuration,
the data are reported in the Google Analytics interface.
Now that we know what goes on behind the scenes,
let's take a look at the Google Analytics interface and get oriented.